rimage: add ipc4 extended module config introduction (#451)
thesofproject/sof-docs: developer_guides/rimage/ipc4_extended_module_config.rst

.. _ipc4_extended_module_config:

Ipc4_extended_module_config
###########################

The ipc4 extended module config is stored in the extended manifest structure of the
output binary file. This config includes many module attributes such as name, uuid
or capabilities. The host driver will rely on the extended module config for IPC
messages to the DSP

Rimage builds extended module config based on module setting in config/xxx.toml.
The following setting is for gain module.

.. code-block:: bash

        [[module.entry]]
        name = "GAIN"
        uuid = "61BCA9A8-18D0-4A18-8E7B-2639219804B7"
        affinity_mask = "0x1"
        instance_count = "40"
        domain_types = "0"
        load_type = "0"

>         module_type = "5"

Reviewer: @RanderWang while this is still pending, can you please also add the init_config part that I recently introduced?

Author: sure.

        auto_start = "0"

        # pin = [dir, type, sample rate, size, container, channel-cfg]
        pin = [0, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x45ff,
                        1, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x1ff]

        # mod_cfg [PAR_0 PAR_1 PAR_2 PAR_3 IS_BYTES CPS IBS OBS MOD_FLAGS CPC OBLS]
        mod_cfg = [0, 0, 0, 0, 416, 914000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                   1, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1321600, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   2, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1786000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   3, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2333000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                   4, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2910000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   5, 0, 0, 0, 416, 3441000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   6, 0, 0, 0, 416, 4265000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0]

Module entry definition
***********************
| **name**: name of the module
| **uuid**: uuid of the module

> | **affinity_mask**: restriction on which core a module can run, with the actual determination done on a per-instance basis.

Reviewer 2: any way to specify "don't care" so we don't have to premtively predict core counts?

Author: Different platform has different dsp core count. Let's use 0xffffffff  and I will add it in document and refine the rimage code.

|                    bit N is for core N, 0x3 means module instance can run on core 0 and 1

> | **instance_count**: max module instance count can be active in fw

Reviewer 2: same here, what is "don't care"

Author: The problem is that we have limited dsp memory so we can't have unlimited instance count. The instance count is used for avoiding out of memory. You can give a huge number to remove the limitation literally.

Reviewer 2: Yea but we also have no comprehension of the DSP we are running on. Not all DSPs are the same.

| **domain_types**: two schedule domains: domain ll (0), and dp (1)
| **load_type**: build-in module (BIT(0)), loadable (BIT(1)) or both BIT(0) | BIT(1)
| **module_type**: defined in the following enum module_type

.. code-block:: bash

>   enum module_type {

Reviewer 2: not gonna lie, counting down this is a pain to convert it to a number, also likely error prone, also why is everything prefixed with `e`?

Author: remove the 'e'

Reviewer 2: Reopening regarding parser comment

Author: sorry, I don't get your idea. Do you mean that using string, not decimal number ?

        ebasefw = 0,
        emixin,
        emixout,
        ecopier,
        epeakvol,
        eupdwmix,
        emux,
        esrc,
        ewov,
        efx,
        eaec,
        ekpb,
        emicselect,
        efxf,   /*i.e.SmartAmp */
        eaudclass,
        efakecopier,
        eiodriver,
        ewhm,
        egdbstub,
        esensing,
        emax,
        einvalid = emax
   };

> | **auto_start**: Indicates whether a module instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup

Reviewer 2: "Indicates whether a  instance of the module" drop the first "module" to make it easier to understand

Author: sure, thanks

| **pin**: is array of data used to define the capability of input & output

.. code-block:: bash

  pin = [dir, type, sample rates, sample size, sample container size, channel config]

>   For example, gain module pin = [0, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x45ff], it supports input pcm

Reviewer 2: is there no better way to document/configure this? This seems like a heavy load on the user to (de)compile and humans are great sources of error

Author: it needs to develop a new tool to make it easy

Reviewer 2: I mean, just simply using enums, and discrete fields would be better than manual bitpacking

Author: @cujomalainey  sure. Let's add this feature to rimage tool.

    uint32_t channel_7_0 : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
    uint32_t channel_7_0_surround : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | FRONT_LEFT_OF_CENTER | FRONT_RIGHT_OF_CENTER
    uint32_t channel_7_1 : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
    uint32_t channel_7_1_surround : 1;

    uint32_t reserved_ : 16;
  };

| **mod_cfg**: It is generated by fw for each different stream format in real case, such as 48khz, 16bit, 4channel. Use should copy
|              these config to module entry. If there is no mod_cfg built by fw, the mod_cfg can be skipped. The definition is:

.. code-block:: bash

   struct ModuleConfig {
    uint32_t    par[4];
    uint32_t    is_bytes;
    uint32_t    cps;
    uint32_t    ibs;
    uint32_t    obs;
    uint32_t    module_flags;
    uint32_t    cpc;
    uint32_t    obls;
   };

   par: Configuration lookup parameters used by the host driver

>    is_byte: Number of bytes required by the module instance

Reviewer 2: is this RAM? Stack? Or text? Also is there a stack field?

Author: this is RAM which is for module instance initialization

   cps: Number of DSP cycles consumed by the module instance to process one second of data

>    ibs: input buffer byte size

Reviewer: input buffer size in bytes? same with obs below?

Author: sure , thanks

.. _ipc4_extended_module_config:

Ipc4_extended_module_config
###########################

The ipc4 extended module config is stored in the extended manifest structure of the
output binary file. This config includes many module attributes such as name, uuid
or capabilities. The host driver will rely on the extended module config for IPC
messages to the DSP

Rimage builds extended module config based on module setting in config/xxx.toml.
The following setting is for gain module.

.. code-block:: bash

        [[module.entry]]
        name = "GAIN"
        uuid = "61BCA9A8-18D0-4A18-8E7B-2639219804B7"
        affinity_mask = "0x1"
        instance_count = "40"
        domain_types = "0"
        load_type = "0"
        module_type = "5"
        auto_start = "0"

>         init_config = "0"

Author: at line 79

        # pin = [dir, type, sample rate, size, container, channel-cfg]
        pin = [0, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x45ff,
                        1, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x1ff]

        # mod_cfg [PAR_0 PAR_1 PAR_2 PAR_3 IS_BYTES CPS IBS OBS MOD_FLAGS CPC OBLS]
        mod_cfg = [0, 0, 0, 0, 416, 914000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                   1, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1321600, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   2, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1786000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   3, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2333000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                   4, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2910000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   5, 0, 0, 0, 416, 3441000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                   6, 0, 0, 0, 416, 4265000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0]

Module entry definition
***********************
| **name**: name of the module
| **uuid**: uuid of the module
| **affinity_mask**: restriction on which core a module can run, with the actual determination done on a per-instance basis.
|                    bit N is for core N, 0x3 means module instance can run on core 0 and 1. Use 0xffff to ignore this restriction.
| **instance_count**: max module instance count can be active in fw

> | **domain_types**: two schedule domains: domain ll - low latency (0), and dp - data processing (1)

Reviewer 2: This definitely needs elaboration or a link to something more detailed.

Author: thanks ,added

| **load_type**: build-in module (BIT(0)), loadable (BIT(1)) or both BIT(0) | BIT(1)
| **module_type**: defined in the following enum module_type

.. code-block:: bash

  enum module_type {
        basefw          = 0,
        mixin           = 1,
        mixout          = 2,
        copier          = 3,
        peakvol         = 4,
        updwmix         = 5,
        mux             = 6,
        src             = 7,
        wov             = 8,
        fx              = 9,
        aec             = 10,
        kpb             = 11,
        micselect       = 12,
        fxf             = 13,
        audclass        = 14,
        fakecopier      = 15,
        iodriver        = 16,
        whm             = 17,
        gdbstub         = 18,
        sensing         = 19,
        max             = 20,
        invalid         = emax
   };

| **auto_start**: Indicates whether a instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup

> | **init_config**: 0 (only basic config in payload) or 1 (basic config with extension that contains pin format).

Reviewer 2: pin format means nothing to non-sof developers, let alone most SOF developers... please describe or link to something more descriptive

Reviewer 3: @mwasko @mmaka1 this PR may be better taken over by you guys as the manifest experts ? Need to make sure we provide all the relevant usage info.

.. _ipc4_extended_module_config:

Ipc4_extended_module_config
###########################

The ipc4 extended module config is a place to store build-time known module metadata
such as the module name, uuid or capabilities. This config is part of the output
binary is located in extended manifest structure in the binary file and it is used

> by driver when setting up ipc message to dsp.

Author: thanks

Rimage builds extended module config based on module setting in config/xxx.toml.
The following setting is for gain module.

.. code-block:: bash

        [[module.entry]]
        name = "GAIN"
        uuid = "61BCA9A8-18D0-4A18-8E7B-2639219804B7"
        affinity_mask = "0x1"
        instance_count = "40"
        domain_types = "0"
        load_type = "0"
        module_type = "5"
        auto_start = "0"
        sched_caps = [1, 0x00008000]

        # pin = [dir, type, sample rate, size, container, channel-cfg]
        pin = [0, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x45ff,
                        1, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x1ff]

>         # mod_cfg [PAR_0 PAR_1 PAR_2 PAR_3 IS_BYTES CPS IBS OBS MOD_FLAGS CPC OBLS]

Author: module capabilities.

        mod_cfg = [0, 0, 0, 0, 416, 914000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                                1, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1321600, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                                2, 0, 0, 0, 416, 1786000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                                3, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2333000, 48, 64, 0, 0, 0,
                                4, 0, 0, 0, 416, 2910000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,
                                5, 0, 0, 0, 416, 3441000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0,

>                                 6, 0, 0, 0, 416, 4265000, 192, 256, 0, 0, 0]

Author: sure, thanks!

Module entry definition
***********************
| **name**: name of the module
| **uuid**: uuid of the module

> | **affinity_mask**: usable dsp core mask, bit N is for core N, 0x3 means core 0 and 1 can be used

Author: sure

| **instance_count**: max module instance count can be active in fw

> | **domain_types**: two schedule domains: domain ll (0), and dp (1)

Reviewer 4: I'd assume these are indexes of bits in the mask since you may define a module that works in both domains? But you provided value of "0" in the example above which suggests these are mutually exclusive modes?

Author: I find "domain_types LL DP" in real case.
 Let's use index of bit. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: should give a bit more guidance here about which to choose for developers who may just building a standalone module are not SOF developers. LL and DP mean nothing to outsiders. To be honest I only know edf and ll, I have no clue what dp is.

Reviewer 5: @cujomalainey Some of this is referring to ongoing work, which understandably makes this hard to follow. For DP, the PR to add this concept to SOF was just submitted for review https://github.com/thesofproject/sof/pull/7089

> | **load_type**: build-in module (BIT(0)), loadable (BIT(1)) or both BIT(0) | BIT(1)

Author: I found the definition "domain_types LL DP"  in some module conf files, such asrc module. We need a windows expert to explain it.

| **module_type**: defined in the following enum module_type

.. code-block:: bash

  enum module_type {
        ebasefw = 0,
        emixin,
        emixout,
        ecopier,
        epeakvol,
        eupdwmix,
        emux,
        esrc,
        ewov,
        efx,
        eaec,
        ekpb,
        emicselect,
        efxf,   /*i.e.SmartAmp */
        eaudclass,
        efakecopier,
        eiodriver,
        ewhm,
        egdbstub,
        esensing,
        emax,
        einvalid = emax

>    };

Reviewer 5: @mwasko @mmaka1 Can we add something about the semantics here? What should people adding new modules know about setting the "module_type"?

Reviewer 6: @kv2019i module_type enum was defined for the Host SW driver purpose. The idea was to have option to identify components of specific functionality like for e.g. wov, mux or any other listed above. That capability allow for more topology flexibility at Host SW level. For example, instead of hardcoding in topology that you need Module_1 with specific GUID you can point that you need Module_1 with specific functionality type. That allow to swap components of the same functionality without need to change the topology itself / modifying GUIDs.

The bottom line is that new modules module_type should be matched with one of the available on list or if necessary the new custom type should be added. I would also recommend to change the enum name to something like module_fuctionality_type.

Reviewer 5: Ack @mwasko . I think the "bottom line" part should be added directly in the docs to help module developers choose correctly.

| **auto_start**: Indicates whether a module instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup
| **sched_caps**: It is a deprecated data used by driver to calculate schedule info for module. Please use the

> | default frame_length 1 and all multiple supported.

Author: I will refine the description.

.. code-block:: bash

    struct SchedulingCapabilities {
        uint16_t   frame_length; // Input frame length in sample groups
        Multiples  multiples_supported;
    };

    struct Multiples {
        uint16_t x1 : 1;   // (base * 1)
        uint16_t x2 : 1;   // (base * 2)
        uint16_t x3 : 1;   // (base * 3)
        uint16_t x4 : 1;   // (base * 4)
        uint16_t x5 : 1;   // (base * 5)
        uint16_t x6 : 1;   // (base * 6)
        uint16_t x7 : 1;   // (base * 7)
        uint16_t x8 : 1;   // (base * 8)
        uint16_t x9 : 1;   // (base * 9)
        uint16_t x10 : 1;  // (base * 10)
        uint16_t x11 : 1;  // (base * 11)
        uint16_t x12 : 1;  // (base * 12)
        uint16_t x13 : 1;  // (base * 13)
        uint16_t x14 : 1;  // (base * 14)
        uint16_t x15 : 1;  // (base * 15)
        uint16_t all : 1;  // (base * X)
    };

| **pin**: is array of data used to define the capability of input & output

.. code-block:: bash

  pin = [dir, type, sample rates, sample size, sample container size, channel config]
  For example, gain module pin = [0, 0, 0xfeef, 0xf, 0xf, 0x45ff], it supports input pcm

>   supported sample rate [0xxfeef]: 8000, 11500, 16000, 1200, 22050, 24000, 32000, 44100,

Reviewer 7: 1200 is certainly a typo
I don't known what 11500 is. Should it be 11025?

Author: sure, it is 12000 and should be before 16000.

                                   48000, 64000, 88200, 96000, 176400, 19200,
  supported sample size [0xf]: 8bits, 16bits, 24bits, 32bits.
  supported sample container size [0xa]: 16bits and 32bits
  supported channel config [0x45ff]: mono, dual mono, stereo, 2_1, 3_0, quad, surround, 3_1,
                                     5_0_surround, 7_1

  enum dir {
   input = 0,
   output,
  }

  enum type {
    pcm = 0,
    mp3,

>     aac,

Author: @plbossart  extended module config are used by driver, not by firmware. type is included in conf and I need to comments it

>     aac,

Reviewer 7: I am not going to question @mmaka1 's answer " The driver never used this one. And it was always hardcoded to ePcm. "

don't document things that are not useful or even used.

>     aac,

Reviewer 3: ack - lets remove

  };

  struct sample_rates {
    uint32_t freq_8000   : 1;
    uint32_t freq_11500  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_12000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_16000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_18900  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_22050  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_24000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_32000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_37800  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_44100  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_48000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_64000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_88200  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_96000  : 1;
    uint32_t freq_176400 : 1;
    uint32_t freq_192000 : 1;
    uint32_t reserved_   : 16;
  };

  struct sample_sizes {
    uint16_t bits_8    : 1;
    uint16_t bits_16   : 1;
    uint16_t bits_24   : 1;
    uint16_t bits_32   : 1;
    uint16_t bits_64   : 1;
    uint16_t reserved_ : 11;
  };

  struct sample_containers {
    uint16_t bits_8    : 1;
    uint16_t bits_16   : 1;
    uint16_t bits_32   : 1;
    uint16_t bits_64   : 1;
    uint16_t reserved_ : 12;
  };

>   struct channel_configurations {

Reviewer 4: Why does the FW (and/or the driver) need the channel configuration?

Author: @mmaka1  This is included in module extended config and we can use fw parser to decode fw binary to get it.  It is used by windows driver but I am not familiar with windows driver. Please check the following dump for copier module in windows fw.  We add it to make sure cSOF is compatible with window driver.

````
module b COPIER
uuid 9BA00C83-CA12-4A83-943C-1FA2E82F9DDA
name Copier
affinity_mask MASTER_CORE_AFFINITY
instance_count COPIER_MAX_INSTANCE
domain_types LL
type CopierModule
group text
section ep .copier.cmi.text

sched_caps 1 all

pin in
stream_type pcm
sample_rates 8k 11.025k 12k 16k 22.05k 24k 32k 44.1k 48k 64k 88.2k 96k 176.4k 192k
sample_sizes sample_8b sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b
sample_containers container_8b container_16b container_24b container_32b
channel_cfg ch_mono ch_dual_mono ch_stereo ch_2_1 ch_3_0 ch_3_1 ch_quad ch_surround ch_5_0 ch_5_1 ch_7_1

pin out
stream_type pcm
sample_rates 8k 11.025k 12k 16k 22.05k 24k 32k 44.1k 48k 64k 88.2k 96k 176.4k 192k
sample_sizes sample_8b sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b
sample_containers container_8b container_16b container_24b container_32b
channel_cfg ch_mono ch_dual_mono ch_stereo ch_2_1 ch_3_0 ch_3_1 ch_quad ch_surround ch_5_0 ch_5_1 ch_7_1

pin out
stream_type pcm
sample_rates 8k 11.025k 12k 16k 22.05k 24k 32k 44.1k 48k 64k 88.2k 96k 176.4k 192k
sample_sizes sample_8b sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b
sample_containers container_8b container_16b container_24b container_32b
channel_cfg ch_mono ch_dual_mono ch_stereo ch_2_1 ch_3_0 ch_3_1 ch_quad ch_surround ch_5_0 ch_5_1 ch_7_1

pin out
stream_type pcm
sample_rates 8k 11.025k 12k 16k 22.05k 24k 32k 44.1k 48k 64k 88.2k 96k 176.4k 192k
sample_sizes sample_8b sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b
sample_containers container_8b container_16b container_24b container_32b
channel_cfg ch_mono ch_dual_mono ch_stereo ch_2_1 ch_3_0 ch_3_1 ch_quad ch_surround ch_5_0 ch_5_1 ch_7_1

pin out
stream_type pcm
sample_rates 8k 11.025k 12k 16k 22.05k 24k 32k 44.1k 48k 64k 88.2k 96k 176.4k 192k
sample_sizes sample_8b sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b
sample_containers container_8b container_16b container_24b container_32b
channel_cfg ch_mono ch_dual_mono ch_stereo ch_2_1 ch_3_0 ch_3_1 ch_quad ch_surround ch_5_0 ch_5_1 ch_7_1
````

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | FRONT_LEFT_OF_CENTER | FRONT_RIGHT_OF_CENTER
    uint32_t channel_7_0 : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
    uint32_t channel_7_0_surround : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | FRONT_LEFT_OF_CENTER | FRONT_RIGHT_OF_CENTER
    uint32_t channel_7_1 : 1;

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
    uint32_t channel_7_1_surround : 1;

    uint32_t reserved_ : 16;
  };

| **mod_cfg**: it is generated by fw building and copy it to module entry. If there is no mod_cfg built by fw, the mod_cfg can be skipped. The definition is:

.. code-block:: bash

   struct ModuleConfig {
    uint32_t    par[4];
    uint32_t    is_bytes;
    uint32_t    cps;
    uint32_t    ibs;
    uint32_t    obs;
    uint32_t    module_flags;
    uint32_t    cpc;
    uint32_t    obls;
   };

   par: Configuration lookup parameters used by the host driver
   is_byte: Number of bytes required by the module instance

>    cps: Number of DSP cycles consumed by the module instance to process one second of data

Reviewer 7: max number of cycles? average? worst-case?

Author: cps is calculated by fw for different configs, such as 44.1k 16bits 2 ch. So we have a array of module config for different hw_params.

Reviewer 7: cycle per second then. and you haven't said if it's assumed worst-case?

Author: It is done by ref fw. I know nothing of the detail.

   ibs: input buffer size

>    obs: input buffer size

Reviewer 7: size in bytes/words?

Author: bytes

   module_flags: Reserved for future use

>    cpc: Number of DSP cycles required to process one frame of data

Reviewer 7: what's the difference between cpc and cps?

Author: cps for one second data processing, cpc for one frame data

Reviewer 7: what is a frame in this context?

Author: schedule buffer size , in normal case 1ms data size

not exceed 8 characters.

Module UUID
-----------
**Usage:**

``uuid uuid_number``

**Example:**

``uuid 8075F4F8-6214-4A61-8C08-884BE5D14FF8``

*uuid_number* unique UUID number. See [UUID Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier)
for a description.

Module pretty name
------------------
**Usage:**
``name pretty_name``

**Example:**
``name Aca module example``

*pretty_name* does not have to be unique. It is not limited to 8 characters.

Module version
--------------

**Usage:**
  * version_major major_value
  * version_minor minor_value
  * version_hotfix hotfix_value
  * version_build build_value

**Example:**
  * version_major 0x1
  * version_minor 0x0
  * version_hotfix 0x0
  * version_build 0x0

- *version_major* - shall be used only for vendor parameter structure change
  (user decide how to use version parameter);
- *version_minor* - shall be used only for internal changes (optimizations,
  bug fix);
- *version_hotfix* - shall be used during the bug fixing period;
- *version_build* - shall be incremented with new build.

Module affinity
---------------
**Usage:**
``affinity_mask mask``

**Example:**

> ``affinity_mask MASTER_CORE_AFFINITY``

Reviewer 8: The term MASTER is no longer used in SOF documentation. Please use MAIN or another approved alternative.

> *mask* is a bit-mask of cores allowed to execute module. Macros reffering this

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
*mask* is a bit-mask of cores allowed to execute modules. Macros referencing this
```

mask are defined at:
``<repo_dir>/FW/portable/include/modules.h``

Module instance count
---------------------
**Usage:**
``instance_count count``

**Example:**
``instance_count +1``

> *instance_count* refers to number of module instance. The value should be

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
*instance_count* refers to the number of module instances. The value should be
```

> provided with "+" at beginning. It will be added to basic instance count.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
provided with "+" at beginning. It will be added to the basic instance count.
```

Scheduler domain type
---------------------
**Usage:**
``domain_types type``

**Example:**
``domain_types DP``

> Following domain types are available :

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
The following domain types are available:
```

> - *LL* - low latency domain is intended to be able transfer data through DSP

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- *LL* - low latency domain is intended to transfer data through the DSP
```

subsystem within 2ms. Processing modules used in that domain must be able to

> work on limited number of samples. To meet 2ms pipeline latency on stream

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
work on limited numbers of samples. To meet the 2ms pipeline latency on a stream
```

> sampled at 48 kHz stream needs to be processed in 1ms periods i.e. using maximum

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
sampled at 48 kHz, the stream needs to be processed in 1ms periods i.e. using the maximum
```

48 sample blocks.

> - *DP* - Data processing domain is intended host all processing that does not

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- *DP* - data processing domain is intended to host all processing that does not
```

> fit in definition of low latency domain. It is important that this domain is

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
fit the definition of low latency domain. It is important that this domain is
```

still real time and latency sensitive.

Module type
-----------
**Usage:**
``type class_name``

**Example:**
``type AudClassModule``

> *class_name* refers to module class type supported by firmware. Available

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
*class_name* refers to the module class types supported by the firmware. Available
```

modules classes are placed in:
``<repo_dir>/FW/intel_common/module_binmaps/dsp_fw_common.binmap``

> in ``# type <mod_func_type>`` section.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
in the ``# type <mod_func_type>`` section.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  enum module_type {
        basefw          = 0,
        mixin           = 1,
        mixout          = 2,
        copier          = 3,
        peakvol         = 4,
        updwmix         = 5,
        mux             = 6,
        src             = 7,
        wov             = 8,
        fx              = 9,
        aec             = 10,
        kpb             = 11,
        micselect       = 12,
        fxf             = 13,
        audclass        = 14,
        fakecopier      = 15,
        iodriver        = 16,
        whm             = 17,
        gdbstub         = 18,
        sensing         = 19,
        max             = 20,
        invalid         = emax
   };

auto_start
----------
**Usage:**

> ``auto_start true or false`` Indicates whether a instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
``auto_start true or false`` Indicates whether an instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup
```

**Example:**
``auto_start false``

init_config_has_extension
-----------
**Usage:**

> ``init_config_has_extension true or false`` 0 (only basic config in payload) or 1 (basic config with extension that contains pin format).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
``init_config_has_extension true or false`` 0 (only basic config in payload) or 1 (basic config with extension that contains pin format)
```

**Example:**
``init_config_has_extension 1``

Module stack size
-----------------
**Usage:**
``stack_size size``

**Example:**
``stack_size 1000``

> *stack_size* is size of stack that module instance requires for its task. It refer only to DP scheduler domain.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
*stack_size* is the stack size that the module instance requires for its task. It refers only to the DP scheduler domain.
```

Scheduling capabilities
-----------------------
**Usage:**
``sched_caps scheduling_period multiples_supported``

**Example:**
``sched_caps 1 all``

> - *scheduling_period* - scheduling period should be given in samples per channel

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- *scheduling_period* - the scheduling period is given in samples per channel
```

  (i.e. 1 sample = 1 sample per channel) as a hexadecimal value.
- *multiples_supported* - indicates the supported period multiples. Available
  values are placed in:

``<repo_dir>/FW/intel_common/module_binmaps/dsp_fw_common.binmap``

> in ``# multiples_supported <list_of_supported_multiples>`` section.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
in the ``# multiples_supported <list_of_supported_multiples>`` section.
```

Module config
-------------
**Usage:**
``mod_cfg  PAR_0  PAR_1  PAR_2  PAR_3  IS_BYTES  CPS  IBS  OBS  MOD_FLAGS  CPC  OBLS``

**Example:**
``mod_cfg 0 0 0 0 4096 500000 180 180 0 5000 0``

> *mod_cfg* required following parameters:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
*mod_cfg* required parameters:
```

>   * PAR0-3 - any module parameters;

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * PAR0-3 - any module parameters
```

>   * IS_BYTES - actual size of instance .bss (pages);

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * IS_BYTES - actual size of instance .bss (pages)
```

  * CPS (Cycles Per Second) - indicates the max count of cycles per second which
    are granted to a certain module to complete the processing of its input and

>     output buffers;

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    output buffers
```

>   * IBS (Input Buffer Size) - input buffer size (in bytes) that module shall

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * IBS (Input Buffer Size) - input buffer size (in bytes) that the module 
```

>     process (within ProcessingModuleInterface::Process()) from every connected

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    processes (within ProcessingModuleInterface::Process()) from every connected
```

>     input pin;

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    input pin
```

>   * OBS (Output Buffer Size) - output buffer size (in bytes) that module shall

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * OBS (Output Buffer Size) - output buffer size (in bytes) that the module 
```

>     produce (within ProcessingModuleInterface::Process()) on every connected

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    produces (within ProcessingModuleInterface::Process()) on every connected
```

>     output pin;

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    output pin
```

  * MOD_FLAGS (Module Flags) - for future use
  * CPC (Cycles Per Chunk) - indicates the max count of Cycles Per Chunk which
    are granted to a certain module to complete the processing of its input and

>     output buffers;

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    output buffers
```

>   * OBLS (Output Block Size) - for future use.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * OBLS (Output Block Size) - for future use
```

Input/Output pins
-----------------
**Usage:**
  * ``pin in``
  * ``stream_type type``
  * ``sample_rates rates``
  * ``sample_sizes sizes``
  * ``sample_containers containers``
  * ``channel_cfg ch_cfg``

**Example:**
  * ``pin in``
  * ``stream_type pcm``
  * ``sample_rates 44.1k 48k``
  * ``sample_sizes sample_16b sample_24b sample_32b``
  * ``sample_containers container_16b container_32b``
  * ``channel_cfg ch_mono ch_stereo``

A pin is a connector that transmits PCM audio streaming: one pin can transmit

> several channels (for example, a stereo signal requires only one pin). There are

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
several channels (for example, a stereo signal requires only one pin). The
```

> two pin types: input (*in*) and output (*out*). Additional pin properties are:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
two pin types are input (*in*) and output (*out*). Additional pin properties are:
```

  * ``stream_type``
  * ``sample_rates``
  * ``sample_sizes``
  * ``sample_containers``
  * ``channel_cfg``

> Values for above properties are available in common binmap file:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Values for the above properties are available in the common binmap file:
```

``<repo_dir>/FW/intel_common/module_binmaps/dsp_fw_common.binmap``

> in respectively:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
respectively:
```

     ch_quad,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_CENTER
     ch_surround,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY
     ch_3_1,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT
     ch_5_0,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
     ch_5_0_surround,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT
     ch_5_1,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
     ch_5_1_surround,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | FRONT_LEFT_OF_CENTER | FRONT_RIGHT_OF_CENTER
     ch_7_0,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
     ch_7_0_surround,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | FRONT_LEFT_OF_CENTER | FRONT_RIGHT_OF_CENTER
     ch_7_1,

    // FRONT_LEFT | FRONT_RIGHT | FRONT_CENTER | LOW_FREQUENCY | BACK_LEFT | BACK_RIGHT | SIDE_LEFT | SIDE_RIGHT
     ch_7_1_surround,
  };

Build new module entry
**********************

> All these module setting are defined in module_binmaps and mod_cfgs files in FW/portable/platform/platform_name/ if the module is a existing one in reference fw and just do simple conversion and copy it to module entry. If the module is a totally new one, everything needs to build according to above definitions.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
All module settings are defined in module_binmaps and mod_cfgs files in FW/portable/platform/platform_name/. If the module already exists in the reference fw, do a simple conversion and copy it to module entry. If the module is new, build everything according to the above definitions.
```

Reviewer 8: This is a very wordy paragraph. Please review it to make sure my edits did not alter the technical context.

modules classes are placed in:
``<repo_dir>/FW/intel_common/module_binmaps/dsp_fw_common.binmap``
in ``# type <mod_func_type>`` section.

.. code-block:: bash

  enum module_type {
        basefw          = 0,
        mixin           = 1,
        mixout          = 2,
        copier          = 3,
        peakvol         = 4,
        updwmix         = 5,
        mux             = 6,
        src             = 7,
        wov             = 8,
        fx              = 9,
        aec             = 10,
        kpb             = 11,
        micselect       = 12,
        fxf             = 13,
        audclass        = 14,
        fakecopier      = 15,
        iodriver        = 16,
        whm             = 17,
        gdbstub         = 18,
        sensing         = 19,
        max             = 20,
        invalid         = emax
   };

auto_start
----------
**Usage:**
``auto_start true or false`` Indicates whether a instance of the module should be created at the base fw startup

**Example:**
``auto_start false``

init_config
-----------
**Usage:**
``init_config true or false`` 0 (only basic config in payload) or 1 (basic config with extension that contains pin format).

**Example:**

> ``init_config 1``

Reviewer 2: can this be `init_config_has_extension` just so its clear what the bool is identifing?

Reviewer 2: yes i think a rename is warranted here

Author: yes, agree

Module stack size
-----------------
**Usage:**
``stack_size size``

**Example:**
``stack_size 1000``

*stack_size* is size of stack that module instance requires for its task. It refer only to DP scheduler domain.

Scheduling capabilities
-----------------------
**Usage:**
``sched_caps scheduling_period multiples_supported``

**Example:**
``sched_caps 1 all``

- *scheduling_period* - scheduling period should be given in samples per channel
  (i.e. 1 sample = 1 sample per channel) as a hexadecimal value.
- *multiples_supported* - indicates the supported period multiples. Available
  values are placed in:

``<repo_dir>/FW/intel_common/module_binmaps/dsp_fw_common.binmap``
in ``# multiples_supported <list_of_supported_multiples>`` section.

Module config
-------------
**Usage:**

> ``mod_cfg PAR_0 PAR_1 PAR_2 PAR_3 IS_BYTES CPS IBS OBS MOD_FLAGS CPC OBLS``

Reviewer 2: this is a bit long, 11 args is a bit hard to read

Author: what's your suggestion ? It defines array of config data.

Reviewer 2: The indicies are named no? Can they not be broken out?

Author: sorry, I don't get your idea.  Can you give an example ? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Based on the description even though it is a byte array, the bytes themselves are all mapped directly to a value. Just curious why we cannot treat this as a packed struct and give everything a name and/or possible sub structs to make access and identification easier.

Author: In my opinion, we can define struct in C language code, but this is a config file and these data blob are generated by FW tools, so like topology setting, we just include byte array.
